---
title: WebTransport over HTTP/3
abbrev: WebTransport-H3
docname: draft-ietf-webtrans-http3-latest
date: {DATE}
category: std

ipr: trust200902
area: Transport

stand_alone: yes
pi: [toc, sortrefs, symrefs]

author:
 -
    ins: A. Frindell
    name: Alan Frindell
    org: Facebook
    email: afrind@fb.com
 -
    ins: E. Kinnear
    name: Eric Kinnear
    org: Apple Inc.
    email: ekinnear@apple.com
 -
    ins: V. Vasiliev
    name: Victor Vasiliev
    org: Google
    email: vasilvv@google.com

normative:
  HTTP3:
    title: "Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 3 (HTTP/3)"
    date: {DATE}
    seriesinfo:
      Internet-Draft: draft-ietf-quic-http
    author:
      -
        ins: M. Bishop
        name: Mike Bishop
        org: Akamai
        role: editor
  OVERVIEW:
    title: "The WebTransport Protocol Framework"
    date: {DATE}
    seriesinfo:
      Internet-Draft: draft-ietf-webtrans-overview-latest
    author:
      -
        ins: V. Vasiliev
        name: Victor Vasiliev
        organization: Google

informative:

--- abstract

WebTransport [OVERVIEW] is a protocol framework that enables clients
constrained by the Web security model to communicate with a remote server using
a secure multiplexed transport.  This document describes a WebTransport
protocol that is based on HTTP/3 [HTTP3] and provides support for
unidirectional streams, bidirectional streams and datagrams, all multiplexed
within the same HTTP/3 connection.

--- note_Note_to_Readers

Discussion of this draft takes place on the WebTransport mailing list
(webtransport@ietf.org), which is archived at
\<https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/search/?email_list=webtransport\>.

The repository tracking the issues for this draft can be found at
\<https://github.com/ietf-wg-webtrans/draft-ietf-webtrans-http3/issues\>.  The
web API draft corresponding to this document can be found at
\<https://w3c.github.io/webtransport/\>.

--- middle

# Introduction

HTTP/3 [HTTP3] is a protocol defined on top of QUIC {{!RFC9000}} that can
multiplex HTTP requests over a QUIC connection.  This document defines
a mechanism for multiplexing non-HTTP data with HTTP/3 in a
manner that conforms with the WebTransport protocol requirements and semantics
[OVERVIEW].  Using the mechanism described here, multiple WebTransport
instances can be multiplexed simultaneously with regular HTTP traffic on the
same HTTP/3 connection.

## Terminology

The keywords "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in BCP 14 {{!RFC2119}} {{!RFC8174}}
when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as shown here.

This document follows terminology defined in Section 1.2 of [OVERVIEW].  Note
that this document distinguishes between a WebTransport server and an HTTP/3
server.  An HTTP/3 server is the server that terminates HTTP/3 connections; a
WebTransport server is an application that accepts WebTransport sessions, which
can be accessed via an HTTP/3 server.

# Protocol Overview

WebTransport servers in general are identified by a pair of authority value and
path value (defined in {{!RFC3986}} Sections 3.2 and 3.3 correspondingly).

When an HTTP/3 connection is established, both the client and server have to
send a SETTINGS_ENABLE_WEBTRANSPORT setting in order to indicate that they
both support WebTransport over HTTP/3.

WebTransport sessions are initiated inside a given HTTP/3 connection by the
client, who sends an extended CONNECT request {{!RFC8441}}.  If the server
accepts the request, an WebTransport session is established.  The resulting
stream will be further referred to as a *CONNECT stream*, and its stream ID is
used to uniquely identify a given WebTransport session within the connection.
The ID of the CONNECT stream that established a given WebTransport session will
be further referred to as a *Session ID*.

After the session is established, the peers can exchange data using the
following mechanisms:

* A client can create a bidirectional stream using a special indefinite-length
  HTTP/3 frame that transfers ownership of the stream to WebTransport.
* A server can create a bidirectional stream, which is possible since HTTP/3
  does not define any semantics for server-initiated bidirectional streams.
* Both client and server can create a unidirectional stream using a special
  stream type.
* A datagram can be sent using HTTP Datagrams
  {{!HTTP-DATAGRAM=I-D.ietf-masque-h3-datagram}}.

An WebTransport session is terminated when the CONNECT stream that created it
is closed.

# Session Establishment

## Establishing a Transport-Capable HTTP/3 Connection

In order to indicate support for WebTransport, both the client and the server
MUST send a SETTINGS_ENABLE_WEBTRANSPORT value set to "1" in their SETTINGS
frame.  The SETTINGS_ENABLE_WEBTRANSPORT parameter value SHALL be either "0" or
"1", with "0" being the default; an endpoint that receives a value other
than "0" or "1" MUST close the connection with the H3_SETTINGS_ERROR error
code.

The client MUST NOT send a WebTransport request until it has received the
setting indicating WebTransport support from the server.  Similarly, the server
MUST NOT process any incoming WebTransport requests until the client settings
have been received, as the client may be using a version of WebTransport
extension that is different from the one used by the server.

In addition to the setting above, the server MUST send a
SETTINGS_MAX_WEBTRANSPORT_SESSIONS parameter indicating the maximum number of
concurrent sessions it is willing to receive.  The default value for the
SETTINGS_MAX_WEBTRANSPORT_SESSIONS parameter is "0", meaning that the server is
not willing to receive any WebTransport sessions.

## Extended CONNECT in HTTP/3

{{!RFC8441}} defines an extended CONNECT method in Section 4, enabled by the
SETTINGS_ENABLE_CONNECT_PROTOCOL parameter.  That parameter is only defined for
HTTP/2.  This document does not create a new multi-purpose parameter to
indicate support for extended CONNECT in HTTP/3; instead, the
SETTINGS_ENABLE_WEBTRANSPORT setting implies that an endpoint supports extended
CONNECT.

## Creating a New Session

As WebTransport sessions are established over HTTP/3, they are identified
using the `https` URI scheme {{!RFC7230}}.

In order to create a new WebTransport session, a client can send an HTTP
CONNECT request.  The `:protocol` pseudo-header field ({{!RFC8441}}) MUST be
set to `webtransport`.  The `:scheme` field MUST be `https`.  Both the
`:authority` and the `:path` value MUST be set; those fields indicate the
desired WebTransport server.  An `Origin` header {{!RFC6454}} MUST be provided
within the request.

Upon receiving an extended CONNECT request with a `:protocol` field set to
`webtransport`, the HTTP/3 server can check if it has a WebTransport
server associated with the specified `:authority` and `:path` values.  If it
does not, it SHOULD reply with status code 404 (Section 6.5.4, {{!RFC7231}}).
If it does, it MAY accept the session by replying with a 2xx series status
code, as defined in Section 15.3 of {{!SEMANTICS=I-D.ietf-httpbis-semantics}}.
The WebTransport server MUST verify the `Origin` header to ensure that the
specified origin is allowed to access the server in question.

From the client's perspective, a WebTransport session is established when the
client receives a 2xx response.  From the server's perspective, a session is
established once it sends a 2xx response.  WebTransport over HTTP/3 does not
support 0-RTT.

The `webtransport` HTTP Upgrade Token uses the Capsule Protocol as defined in
{{HTTP-DATAGRAM}}.

## Limiting the Number of Simultaneous Sessions

This document defines a SETTINGS_MAX_WEBTRANSPORT_SESSIONS parameter that
allows the server to limit the maximum number of concurrent WebTransport
sessions on a single HTTP/3 connection.  The client MUST NOT open more sessions
than indicated in the server SETTINGS parameters.  The server MUST NOT close
the connection if the client opens sessions exceeding this limit, as the client
and the server do not have a consistent view of how many sessions are open due
to the asynchronous nature of the protocol; instead, it MUST reset all of the
CONNECT streams it is not willing to process with the `H3_REQUEST_REJECTED`
status defined in [HTTP3].

# WebTransport Features

WebTransport over HTTP/3 provides the following features described in [OVERVIEW]:
unidirectional streams, bidirectional streams and datagrams, initiated by
either endpoint.

Session IDs are used to demultiplex streams and datagrams belonging to different
WebTransport sessions.  On the wire, session IDs are encoded using the QUIC
variable length integer scheme described in {{!RFC9000}}.

If at any point a session ID is received that cannot a valid ID for a
client-initiated bidirectional stream, the recepient MUST close the connection
with an H3_ID_ERROR error code.

## Unidirectional streams

Once established, both endpoints can open unidirectional streams.  The HTTP/3
unidirectional stream type SHALL be 0x54.  The body of the stream SHALL be the stream
type, followed by the session ID, encoded as a variable-length integer, followed
by the user-specified stream data ({{fig-unidi}}).

~~~~~~~~~~ drawing
  0                   1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                           0x54 (i)                          ...
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                        Session ID (i)                       ...
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                         Stream Body                         ...
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
~~~~~~~~~~
{: #fig-unidi title="Unidirectional WebTransport stream format"}

## Bidirectional Streams

WebTransport endpoints can initiate bidirectional streams by opening an HTTP/3
bidirectional stream and sending an HTTP/3 frame with type
`WEBTRANSPORT_STREAM` (type=0x41).  The format of the frame SHALL be the frame
type, followed by the session ID, encoded as a variable-length integer,
followed by the user-specified stream data ({{fig-bidi-client}}).  The frame
SHALL last until the end of the stream.

~~~~~~~~~~ drawing
  0                   1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                           0x41 (i)                          ...
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                        Session ID (i)                       ...
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                         Stream Body                         ...
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
~~~~~~~~~~
{: #fig-bidi-client title="WEBTRANSPORT_STREAM frame format"}

HTTP/3 does not by itself define any semantics for server-initiated
bidirectional streams.  If WebTransport setting is negotiated by both
endpoints, the syntax of the server-initiated bidirectional streams SHALL be
the same as the syntax of client-initated bidirectional streams, that is, a
sequence of HTTP/3 frames.  The only frame defined by this document for use
within server-initiated bidirectional streams is WEBTRANSPORT_STREAM.

TODO: move the paragraph above into a separate draft; define what happens with
already existing HTTP/3 frames on server-initiated bidirectional streams.

## Resetting Data Streams

A WebTransport endpoint may send a RESET_STREAM or a STOP_SENDING frame for a
WebTransport data stream.  Those signals are propagated by the WebTransport
implementation to the application.

A WebTransport application SHALL provide an error code for those operations.
Since WebTransport shares the error code space with HTTP/3, WebTransport
application errors for streams are limited to an unsigned 8-bit integer,
assuming values between 0x00 and 0xff.  WebTransport implementations SHALL
remap those error codes into an error range where 0x00 corresponds to
0x52e4a40fa8db, and 0xff corresponds to 0x52e4a40fa9e2.  Note that there are
code points inside that range of form "0x1f * N + 0x21" that are reserved by
{{Section 8.1 of HTTP3}}; those have to be accounted for when mapping the error
codes by skipping them (i.e. the two HTTP/3 error codepoints adjacent to a
GREASE codepoint would map to two adjacent WebTransport application error
codepoints).  An example pseudocode can be seen in
{{fig-remap-errors}}.

~~~~~~~~~~
    first = 0x52e4a40fa8db
    last = 0x52e4a40fa9e2

    def webtransport_code_to_http_code(n):
        return first + n + floor(n / 0x1e)

    def http_code_to_webtransport_code(h):
        assert(first <= h <= last)
        assert((h - 0x21) % 0x1f != 0)
        shifted = h - first
        return shifted - shifted // 0x1f
~~~~~~~~~~
{: #fig-remap-errors title="Pseudocode for converting between WebTransport
application errors and HTTP/3 error codes; here, `//` is integer division" }

WebTransport data streams are associated with sessions through a header at the
beginning of the stream; resetting a stream may result in that data being
discarded.  Because of that, WebTransport application error codes are best
effort, as the WebTransport stack is not always capable of associating the
reset code with a session.  The only exception is the situation where there is
only one session on a given HTTP/3 connection, and no intermediaries between
the client and the server.

WebTransport implementations SHALL forward the error code for a stream
associated with a known session to the application that owns that session;
similarly, the intermediaries SHALL reset the streams with corresponding error
code when receiving a reset from the peer.  If a WebTransport implementation
intentionally allows only one session over a given HTTP/3 connection, it SHALL
forward the error codes within WebTransport application error code range to the
application that owns the only session on that connection.

## Datagrams

Datagrams can be sent using HTTP Datagrams. The WebTransport datagram payload is
sent unmodified in the "HTTP Datagram Payload" field of an HTTP Datagram.

## Buffering Incoming Streams and Datagrams

In WebTransport over HTTP/3, the client MAY send its SETTINGS frame, as well as
multiple WebTransport CONNECT requests, WebTransport data streams and
WebTransport datagrams, all within a single flight.  As those can arrive out of
order, a WebTransport server could be put into a situation where it receives a
stream or a datagram without a corresponding session.  Similarly, a client may
receive a server-initiated stream or a datagram before receiving the CONNECT
response headers from the server.

To handle this case, WebTransport endpoints SHOULD buffer streams and datagrams
until those can be associated with an established session.  To avoid resource
exhaustion, the endpoints MUST limit the number of buffered streams and
datagrams.  When the number of buffered streams is exceeded, a stream SHALL be
closed by sending a RESET_STREAM and/or STOP_SENDING with the
`H3_WEBTRANSPORT_BUFFERED_STREAM_REJECTED` error code.  When the number of
buffered datagrams is exceeded, a datagram SHALL be dropped.  It is up to
an implementation to choose what stream or datagram to discard.

# Session Termination

A WebTransport session over HTTP/3 is considered terminated when either of the
following conditions is met:

* the CONNECT stream is closed, either cleanly or abruptly, on either side; or
* a CLOSE_WEBTRANSPORT_SESSION capsule is either sent or received.

Upon learning that the session has been terminated, the endpoint MUST reset all
of the streams associated with the session; it MUST NOT send any new datagrams
or open any new streams.

To terminate a session with a detailed error message, an application MAY send
an HTTP capsule {{HTTP-DATAGRAM}} of type CLOSE_WEBTRANSPORT_SESSION (0x2843).
The format of the capsule SHALL be as follows:

~~~
CLOSE_WEBTRANSPORT_SESSION Capsule {
  Type (i) = CLOSE_WEBTRANSPORT_SESSION,
  Length (i),
  Application Error Code (32),
  Application Error Message (..8192),
}
~~~

CLOSE_WEBTRANSPORT_SESSION has the following fields:

Application Error Code:

: A 32-bit error code provided by the application closing the connection.

Application Error Message:

: A UTF-8 encoded error message string provided by the application closing the
  connection.  The message takes up the remainer of the capsule, and its
  length MUST NOT exceed 1024 bytes.

A CLOSE_WEBTRANSPORT_SESSION capsule MUST be followed by a FIN on the sender
side.  If any additional stream data is received on the CONNECT stream after
CLOSE_WEBTRANSPORT_SESSION, the stream MUST be reset with code
H3_MESSAGE_ERROR.  The recipient MUST close the stream upon receiving a FIN.
If the sender of CLOSE_WEBTRANSPORT_SESSION does not receive a FIN after some
time, it SHOULD send STOP_SENDING on the CONNECT stream.

Cleanly terminating a CONNECT stream without a CLOSE_WEBTRANSPORT_SESSION
capsule SHALL be semantically equivalent to terminating it with a
CLOSE_WEBTRANSPORT_SESSION capsule that has an error code of 0 and an empty
error string.

# Negotiating the Draft Version

\[\[RFC editor: please remove this section before publication.]]

WebTransport over HTTP/3 uses two different mechanisms to negotiate versions
for the different parts of the draft.

The hop-by-hop wire format aspects of the protocol are negotiated by changing
the codepoint used for the SETTINGS_ENABLE_WEBTRANSPORT parameter.  Because
of that, any WebTransport endpoint MUST wait for the peer's SETTINGS frame
before sending or processing any WebTransport traffic.  When multiple versions
are supported by both of the peers, the most recent version supported by both
is selected.

The data exchanged over the CONNECT stream is transmitted across
intermediaries, and thus cannot be versioned using a SETTINGS parameter.  To
indicate support for different versions of the protocol defined in this draft,
the clients SHALL send a header for each version of the draft supported.  The
header corresponding to the version described in this draft is
`Sec-Webtransport-Http3-Draft02`; its value SHALL be `1`.  The server SHALL
reply with a `Sec-Webtransport-Http3-Draft` header indicating the selected
version; its value SHALL be `draft02` for the version described in this draft.

# Security Considerations

WebTransport over HTTP/3 satisfies all of the security requirements imposed by
[OVERVIEW] on WebTransport protocols, thus providing a secure framework for
client-server communication in cases when the client is potentially untrusted.

WebTransport over HTTP/3 requires explicit opt-in through the use of an HTTP/3
setting; this avoids potential protocol confusion attacks by ensuring the
HTTP/3 server explicitly supports it.  It also requires the use of the Origin
header, providing the server with the ability to deny access to Web-based
clients that do not originate from a trusted origin.

Just like HTTP traffic going over HTTP/3, WebTransport pools traffic to different origins
within a single connection.  Different origins imply different trust domains,
meaning that the implementations have to treat each transport as potentially
hostile towards others on the same connection.  One potential attack is a
resource exhaustion attack: since all of the transports share both congestion
control and flow control context, a single client aggressively using up those
resources can cause other transports to stall.  The user agent thus SHOULD
implement a fairness scheme that ensures that each transport within connection
gets a reasonable share of controlled resources; this applies both to sending
data and to opening new streams.

# IANA Considerations

## Upgrade Token Registration

The following entry is added to the "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Upgrade
Token Registry" registry established by {{!RFC7230}}:

The "webtransport" label identifies HTTP/3 used as a protocol for WebTransport:

Value:

: webtransport

Description:

: WebTransport over HTTP/3

Reference:

: This document and {{?I-D.ietf-webtrans-http2}}

## HTTP/3 SETTINGS Parameter Registration

The following entry is added to the "HTTP/3 Settings" registry established by
[HTTP3]:

The `SETTINGS_ENABLE_WEBTRANSPORT` parameter indicates that the specified
HTTP/3 connection is WebTransport-capable.

Setting Name:

: ENABLE_WEBTRANSPORT

Value:

: 0x8b422342

Default:

: 0

Specification:

: This document

## Frame Type Registration

The following entry is added to the "HTTP/3 Frame Type" registry established by
[HTTP3]:

The `WEBTRANSPORT_STREAM` frame allows HTTP/3 client-initiated bidirectional
streams to be used by WebTransport:

Code:

: 0x41

Frame Type:

: WEBTRANSPORT_STREAM

Specification:

: This document

## Stream Type Registration

The following entry is added to the "HTTP/3 Stream Type" registry established by
[HTTP3]:

The "WebTransport stream" type allows unidirectional streams to be used by
WebTransport:

Code:

: 0x54

Stream Type:

: WebTransport stream

Specification:

: This document

Sender:

: Both

## HTTP/3 Error Code Registration

The following entry is added to the "HTTP/3 Error Code" registry established by
[HTTP3]:

Name:

: H3_WEBTRANSPORT_BUFFERED_STREAM_REJECTED

Value:

: 0x3994bd84

Description:

: WebTransport data stream rejected due to lack of associated session.

Specification:

: This document.

In addition, the following range of entries is registered:

Name:

: H3_WEBTRANSPORT_APPLICATION_00 ... H3_WEBTRANSPORT_APPLICATION_FF

Value:

: 0x52e4a40fa8db to 0x52e4a40fa9e2 inclusive, with the exception of
  0x52e4a40fa8f9, 0x52e4a40fa918, 0x52e4a40fa937, 0x52e4a40fa956,
  0x52e4a40fa975, 0x52e4a40fa994, 0x52e4a40fa9b3, and 0x52e4a40fa9d2.

Description:

: WebTransport application error codes.

Specification:

: This document.

--- back
